# TC39 meeting, July 20 - 23, 2020

### Summary

At this meeting a number of proposals moved from stage 3 (candidate proposal) to stage 4
(finished). WeakRefs was among the proposals to move to stage 4, introducing a capability to
the web that was not present before. From an ergonomics point of view, logical assignment and
Promise.any both advanced to stage 4. Two internationalization apis also advanced, DateTimeFormat
and ListFormat. The only stage 2 proposal to move forward to stage 3 was an internationalization
proposal, Intl.Segmenter. Adam Vandolder presented on the `IteratorHelpers` proposal, with the
aim of moving it to stage 3 in September's meeting.

As part of moving WeakRefs to stage 4, I presented a case for separating out the `cleanupSome` api,
in order to gather more feedback before committing to a design. Shu-Yu Guo, from V8 also presented
additional changes required for layering with HTML to the specification. As of this meeting, WeakRefs and
FinalizationGroups are at stage 4, and we are waiting on the last pieces to fall into place in HTML.

Some progress was also made in ensuring that we write down our process and descision making
constraints. I presented with Mark Miller a proposal for writing down language invariants. Some
invariants are currently recorded, but not all of them. This results in some decisions requiring
reconsideration. Finally, I presented a case for specifying our process more fully, namely to
help clarify inconsistencies in advancing or not advancing a proposal. That discussion is currently ongoing.

As Always, here is a digest of the spec work to be done in the coming two months.

### Need Review:
* [Temporal](#Temporal) - Require major review.
* [Symbols as WeakMap keys for stage 2](#symbols-as-weakmap-keys-for-stage-2) - Revisit decision.
* [ResizableArrayBuffer and GrowableSharedArrayBuffer](#resizablearraybuffer-and-growablesharedarraybuffer) - Requires discussion with V8 team.
* [await operations](#await-operations)
* [Class Static Blocks](#classic-static-blocks)

### Needs implementation:
* [Intl.Segmenter](#intlsegmenter)

### Needs minor change:
* [Adding Reflect's Symbol.toStringTag](#adding-reflectsymboltostringtag)

### Keep an eye on...
* [Record and Tuple](#record-and-tuple)
* [JSON.parse source text access](#jsonparse-source-text-access)

## Normative Spec Changes

The following are small normative changes to the specification. These can have an impact on
implementation.

### Retroactive consensus on Unicode 13 property names and aliases
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-20.md#retroactive-consensus-on-unicode-13-property-names-and-aliases-1896-1939)
* **Proposal Link**
  * [PR #1896](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1896#issuecomment-642301441)
  * [PR #1939](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1939)
* **Summary**: Give consensus on the decision made in last meeting about writing non-normative text
    recording how Unicode 13 tables are updated.
* **Impact on SM**: No change needed
* **Outcome**: Consensus

### Specify \8 and \9 in sloppy (non-template) strings
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-20.md#specify-8-and-9-in-sloppy-non-template-strings-2054)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2054)
* **Summary**: \8 and \9 have divergent behavior in different browser. All engines agree that '\8' and '\9' are just '8' and '9' in sloppy mode, so specify that in B.1.2.
* **Impact on SM**: No Change,
* **Outcome**: Consensus

### Adding Reflect[Symbol.toStringTag]
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-20.md#adding-reflectsymboltostringtag-2057)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2057)
* **Summary**: Reflect is currently thee only builtin without Symbol.toStringTag. This adds that
    well known symbol to Reflect.
* **Impact on SM**: Requires change to `Reflect`,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1658318)
* **Outcome**: Consensus

### Strictness check for object's SetMutableBinding
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#strictness-check-for-objects-setmutablebinding)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1O_YdntfiZMTsxX_2FPk1YZypEy1vncL3X1NCg-vmC1E)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2094)
* **Summary**: It is possible to have a Reference to a global variable or object-environment-record property which has been deleted. Normally, bare assignments to undeclared variables in strict mode cause ReferenceErrors. However, calling PutValue on a reference to a global variable which has been deleted since the reference was created does not throw a ReferenceError in strict mode. This circumvents a protection which strict mode is intended to provide.
* **Impact on SM**: No change, we throw in this case,
* **Outcome**: Consensus

### Fix Function.toString for builtins
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#fix-functiontostring-for-builtins)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1948)
* **Summary**: Function.toString in chrome and V8 would include "get" as part of it's toString print
    out, while Spidermonkey would not. According to the specification, "get" should be omitted. This
    PR updats it so that "get" should be included.
* **Impact on SM**: Add "get"/"set" to our toString output for more informative output?,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1658319)
* **Outcome**: Consensus

### Host hooks for Job callbacks
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-20.md#host-hooks-for-job-callbacks)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/19S97ZqhibJABqzeP5ZU6Flk6TVgWzXuvJWFbNTTfpWs)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2086)
* **Summary**: Introduces host hooks so that incumbent realms can be tracked (and enable the HTML
    side of the weakrefs proposal).
* **Impact on SM**: No change in SpiderMonkey
* **Outcome**: Consensus after side discussionn with Mark Miller and Bradley Farias.

### Should eval?.() be direct eval?
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-20.md#should-eval-be-direct-eval-2062-2063)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues/2062)
* **Summary**: During the standardization of optional call, it was not noticed that this would cause
    eval?.() to be an indirect eval. This proposal changes that to being a direct eval instead.
* **Impact on SM**: no change.
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1647169)
* **Outcome**: No consensus, leave as is. Was blocked on the basis that this would be a precident
    that would affect future proposals such as pipeline.

### Forbid Numeric Separators in NonOctalDecimalIntegerLiteral fractional / exponent parts
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-20.md#forbid-numeric-separators-in-nonoctaldecimalintegerliteral-fractional--exponent-parts)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-numeric-separator/issues/49)
* **Summary**: The proposed spec currently prohibits 09_1 but allows 09.1_1 and 09e1_1A. This
    behavior appears to be intentional, but is being raised again to see if we can have a better
    solution.
* **Impact on SM**: No change in SpiderMonkey,
* **Outcome**: Decision to not fix NonOctalDecimalIntegerLiteral, follow-up for a better solution to disallowing exponential parts - perhaps fractional parts as well - from NonOctals.

## Proposals Seeking Advancement to Stage 4

The following are proposals seeking stage 4. At this point, most implementation work should be
finished. All proposals seeking stage 4 in this round were accepted to stage 4.

### Promise.any & AggregateError
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#promiseany--aggregateerror-for-stage-4)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PcfPP5nLVG8w5OosQt5PWwOmFUPuD5pg1rgGaF1JVis)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-promise-any)
* [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2040)
* **Summary**: Introduce Promise.any combinator, which will resolve if any promise in a list
    resolves.
* **Impact on SM**: Implemented,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1568903)
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 4

### Intl.ListFormat
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#intllistformat-for-stage-4)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13gxxnt-JMuWXJhzwuU2jtBRZ8RGJgJ0Y8RsIvHEQU7k/edit#slide=id.p)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
* **Summary**: The Intl.ListFormat object is a constructor for objects that enable language-sensitive list formatting.
* **Impact on SM**: Implemented,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433306)
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 4

### Intl.DateTimeFormat dateStyle/timeStyle
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#intllistformat-for-stage-4)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13gxxnt-JMuWXJhzwuU2jtBRZ8RGJgJ0Y8RsIvHEQU7k/edit#slide=id.p)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
* **Summary**: This proposal adds two options to Intl.DateTimeFormat: dateStyle and timeStyle. These options give a compact way to request the appropriate, locale-specific way to ask for a date and time of given lengths.
* **Impact on SM**: Implemented,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1557718)
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 4

### WeakRefs and FinalizationRegistry
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#weakrefs-for-stage-4--cleanupsome-for-stage-23)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1NYhEELzOnhJGU7inKz0r0TrEa0h33krr1nEb3X_ze5w)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-weakrefs/)
* **Summary**: The WeakRef proposal encompasses two major new pieces of functionality:
  * creating weak references to objects with the WeakRef class
  * running user-defined finalizers after objects are garbage-collected, with the FinalizationRegistry class
* **Impact on SM**: Implemented, except for incumbent realm tracking (HTML requirement),
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1561074)
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 4 without CleanupSome

### Logical Assignment
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#logical-assignment-for-stage-4)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rq448C-mzxWzBs6RTInczGTjs4xv5gQenDJY1fGogX0)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-logical-assignment)
* **Summary**: Introduce logical assignment operators `||=`, `&&=`, and `??=`.
* **Impact on SM**: Implemented,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1629106)
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 4

### NumericLiteralSeparator
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#numericliteralseparator-for-stage-4)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rLT5m3d0yk2KMlka4KZKf2uz9oITdpfr6evAV_jaKcc)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-numeric-separator)
* **Summary**: Introduce separators to make large non-exponent numbers more readable, for example
    `12_345_567_890`.
* **Impact on SM**: Implemented,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1421400)
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 4

## Proposals Seeking Advancement to Stage 3

Proposals which are accepted to stage 3 will require implementer feedback.
Of the proposals seeking stage 3, Intl.Segmenter was accepted, and the rest require further
discussion.

### Intl.Segmenter
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#intlsegmenter-for-stage-3)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LOOt4WPvQdOK3banHkz1V8sdl8Z-7Z9jXBRRS9Ek8-M)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
* **Summary**: introduces locale specific sentence segmentation. For example, an English sentence is easy to segment at the character or world level. "Two chickens in a garden" can be split on any space. This doesn't work for languages that do not use a space or similar as a word boundary. For example the same sentence in Japanese "にわにはにわにわとり" needs specific rules. "にわには" (in the garden), "にわ" (two) and "にわとり" (chicken) are the best word segementation points. Intl.Segmenter provides an API for this. Thank you to Makoto Kato for the clarification.
* **Impact on SM**: To be implemented,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1423593)
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 3.

### Ergonomic Brand Checks
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-22.md#ergonomic-brand-checks-for-private-fields-for-stage-3)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-private-fields-in-in/issues/7)
* **Summary**: Support proper ergonomic [brand checks](https://github.com/tc39/how-we-work/blob/master/terminology.md#brand-check) for classes. This proposal aims at improving the integrity of code and ensuring you can trust that an object is what an object says it is. This is a pretty specific detail to how JS works -- `typeof` is unreliable because it can be spoofed. A proper brandcheck should not be spoofable. One example of a proper brand check is `Array.is()`, this utility allows any JS class to do this. The draw back? It is inconsistent with how the `in` keyword works. Previously `in` only worked with strings, and now it will work with private fields. There isn't room here to describe it fully, but check out the proposal for more info.
* **Impact on SM**: No consensus on stage 3, but we have an experimental impelementation ongoing,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1648090)
* **Outcome**: No Consensus on stage 3. Concern raised by 360 regarding overloading the `in`
    operator, which at present only operates on strings on the left hand side.

### Import Conditions
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#import-conditions-for-stage-3)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/18THsm_ZAog70m0ZlEokRCfyrarMiA1yr6YDAvFXjVNU)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-import-conditions)
* **Summary**: Renames Module Attributes proposal. Introduce the ability to import file types other than JS, such as `import x from "y"
    if {type: ...}`. This would allow importing JSON and other file types.
* **Impact on SM**: No impact until stage 3,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1648614)
* **Outcome**: No Consensus on stage 3. Land patches for s/if/assert/ and permitting quotes around condition keys Split JSON modules into a separate Stage 2 proposal Land weakening of the host constraint, iterating on the wording in cooperation with SYG and BFS SYG, BFS, and WH to review before Stage 3 Proposal remains at Stage 2

## Proposals Seeking Advancement to Stage 2

Proposals seeking stage two are to be accepted by the committee as "a problem that should be
solved", with the general approach suggested as being a potential solution.

### .item() for Stage 2
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#item-for-stage-2)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1N-oXRRKDA7patBA4HIYkzN67j1pbyOxuDZoYRvPFmuA)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tabatkins/proposal-item-method)
* **Summary**: A TC39 proposal to add a .item() method to all the basic indexable classes (Array, String, TypedArray). It allows negative positioning like -1.
* **Impact on SM**: No impact until stage 3.
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1658308)
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 2

### Record and Tuple
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-22.md#record-and-tuple-for-stage-2)
* [**Slides**](https://button.dev/talks/record-and-tuple-tc39-july-2020.pdf)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-record-tuple)
* **Summary**: Records and tuples introduce immutable data collections of primitives to JS. There
    are some ambiguities to clarify around equality, namely positive and negative zero in js. How
    symbols should be treated was also discussed. Destructuring  was discussed and omitted for the
    time being. The proposal will seek Stage 2 in July
* **Impact on SM**: Experimental implementation ongoing.
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1658309)
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 2, concerns raised from implementers regardng implementability and
    possible solutions in Object.freeze and other proposals that have overlap with the immutability
    goal of Record and tuple.

### JSON.parse source text access
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-22.md#jsonparse-source-text-access-for-stage-2)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MGJhUvrWl4dE4otjUm8jXDrhaZLh9g7dnasnfK-VyZg/edit?usp=sharing)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://tc39.es/proposal-json-parse-with-source/)
* **Summary**: A proposal for extending JSON.parse behavior to grant reviver functions access to the input source text.
* **Impact on SM**: No impact until stage 3
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1658310)
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 2 dependant on the 404 editor reviewing and working through the
    issues.

### cleanupSome detached from the WeakRefs proposal and demoted to Stage 2
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#weakrefs-for-stage-4--cleanupsome-for-stage-23)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1NYhEELzOnhJGU7inKz0r0TrEa0h33krr1nEb3X_ze5w)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-weakrefs/)
* **Summary**: CleanupSome is a method associated with WeakRefs and FinalizationGroups, which allows
    programmers to decide if they want to clean up the memory of some long running program that does
    not return to the event loop for a long time.
* **Impact on SM**: No impact until stage 3
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1658311)
* **Outcome**: Consensus on demoting to stage 2.

### Class static blocks for Stage 2
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-20.md#class-static-blocks-for-stage-2)
* [**Slides**](https://onedrive.live.com/view.aspx?resid=934F1675ED4C1638!291940&ithint=file%2cpptx&authkey=!ADFod3jufA89iM8)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://tc39.es/proposal-class-static-block/)
* **Summary**: Class static blocks provide a mechanism to perform additional static initialization during class definition evaluation.
* **Outcome**: Added to agenda too late, No consensus on stage 2

### Slice notation for Stage 2
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#slice-notation-for-stage-2)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1EBpiGuYn2ChDvcd67fpz6gGY14kO8VCuAKOhFMxOqEQ)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-slice-notation)
* **Summary**: The slice notation provides an ergonomic alternative to the various slice methods
    present on Array.prototype, TypedArray.prototype, etc. For example: `arr[1:3]` to get element a, b,
    c, from `arr = [a, b, c, d]`.
* **Impact on SM**: No impact, blocked
* **Outcome**: No consensus on stage 2. Mozilla raised concerns that this new syntax was not
    significantly better than the existing `slice` and could be hostile to learners. Google raised
    that the introduction of negative notation could cause issues, and it does indexing a different
    way from array syntax. Other concerns were raised that the syntax does not have enough of a
    benefit in order to be added.

### Number.range for Stage 2
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-22.md#numberrange-for-stage-2)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/116FDDK2klJoEL8s2Q7UXiDApC681N-Q9SwpC0toAzTU/edit#slide=id.p)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-Number.range)
* **Summary**: Introduces a way to create an iterator for a range of a number type. For example
    `Number.range(1,3)` would give an iterator, yeilding one after the other of the elements`[1, 2, 3]`.
* **Impact on SM**: No impact, blocked
* **Outcome**: No consensus on stage 2, ran out of time to discuss all issues.

### Symbols as WeakMap keys for stage 2
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-22.md#symbols-as-weakmap-keys-for-stage-2)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AofgrikRJp4vTc_tqlchDk4DU9p4eqZdyxnlrFEYsvc/edit#slide=id.p)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-symbols-as-weakmap-keys)
* **Summary**: Allow Symbols to be used as WeakMap keys. This would provide an elegent solution to
    tracking objects (which can be garbage collected much like non-registered symbols) for Records
    and tuples.
* **Impact on SM**: No impact until stage 3, temporarily blocked
* **Outcome**: No consensus on stage 2. Blocked by Mozilla due to concerns of allowing permanent
    entries in a WeakMap/WeakSet. Need more time to consider arguments, and there was no time in
    this meeting to return to the topic.

## Proposals Seeking Advancement to Stage 1

Proposals seeking stage 1 seek entry into the TC39 process. Minimal work required from
implementations.

### await operations
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-22.md#await-operations-for-stage-1)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/116FDDK2klJoEL8s2Q7UXiDApC681N-Q9SwpC0toAzTU/edit#slide=id.g89f56b0333_1_40)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-await.ops)
* **Summary**: Introduce await.all / await.race / await.allSettled / await.any to simplify the usage of Promises
* **Impact on SM**: No change until stage 3.
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 1

### Array.prototype.unique()
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-22.md#arrayprototypeunique-proposal-for-stage-1)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/116FDDK2klJoEL8s2Q7UXiDApC681N-Q9SwpC0toAzTU/edit#slide=id.g89f56b0333_1_150)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/TechQuery/array-unique-proposal)
* **Summary**: Introduce an array method that allows selecting only unique members in an array.
    Addresses the lacking property in Sets when working with objects.
* **Impact on SM**: No change until stage 3.
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 1

### ResizableArrayBuffer and GrowableSharedArrayBuffer
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-23.md#resizablearraybuffer-and-growablesharedarraybuffer-for-stage-1)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17QwbVQEYClzfCDGgWyZg0V_zTC1DWsNwPWvJPuXIqRg)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/syg/proposal-resizablearraybuffer)
* **Summary**: Introduces two new ArrayBuffers, one resizable, the other only growable (and shared) that would be implemented independantly of
    SharedArrayBuffer due to security concerns.
* **Impact on SM**: No change until stage 3.
* **Outcome**: Consensus on stage 1, needs discussion among implementers.

### Async Context for Stage 1
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-23.md#async-context-updates--for-stage-1)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Ef2JI4ntkWd-M8fDqOGZGGh7CiPD05L39CZRSv1II_0/edit?usp=sharing)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/legendecas/proposal-async-context)
* **Summary**: The goal of the proposal is to provide a mechanism to ergonomically track async contexts in JavaScript.
* **Impact on SM**: None,
* **Outcome**: No consensus on stage 1, the issue with dynamic scoping has still not been solved


## Updates on Ongoing work

### Decorators
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#decorators-status-update)
* [**Slides**](https://slides.com/pzuraq/decorators-3cb407)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/)
* **Summary**: Introduces a set of builtin decorators. These builtin decorators can be composed to
    make custom ones. This proposal addresses concerns from implementers around the previous
    iteration of decorators.
* **Impact on SM**: Will require review again,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1435869)
* **Outcome**: The committee introduced contradictory requirements and these need to be relaxed.

### Temporal
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#temporal-stage-2-update)
* [**Slides**](https://pipobscure.dev/slides/temporal-2020-07/)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://tc39.es/proposal-temporal/)
* **Summary**: Temporal introduces a better api for dealing with calendars and dates.
* **Impact on SM**: Require major review,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1519167)
* **Outcome**: Temporal will seek advancement to stage 3 in November. We should have done our review
    before thant point.

### Upsert
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-22.md#upsert-now-renamed-emplace-updates--for-stage-3)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16PtTpuvkTFycaaqkk5XGZRPLNwzUrzBuN9y7VSrGX9k/edit#slide=id.p)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-upsert)
* **Summary**: Add an api that ergonomically allows instantiating a missing element in a map, and
    updating it if necessary.
* **Impact on SM**: No impact until stage 3,
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1586089)
* **Outcome**: After a lot of discussion with the champion, and presenting our (SpiderMonkey's)
    issues with the proposal design and clarifying a few misunderstandings, we can to a different solution,
    which looks similar to getDefault.

### IteratorHelpers
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-21.md#iterator-helpers-update)
* [**Slides**](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YNLzi_ENRtxp5bjhXMUplQ0VIQBUFLyucbNFt_oaNgQ)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-iterator-helpers)
* **Summary**: Iterator helpers introduce array-like helper methods to iterator objects, such as
    `map`, `filter`, etc.
* **Impact on SM**: Implemented, may require minor changes.
  * [Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1568906)
* **Outcome**: Two reviewers recruited for September review of spec.

### Arbitrary Module Namespace Identifiers
* [**Notes**](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/meetings/2020-07/july-22.md#arbitrary-module-namespace-identifiers)
* [**Proposal Link**](https://github.com/bmeck/proposal-arbitrary-module-namespace-identifiers)
* **Summary**: Allow the ability to create modules which integrate using non-IdentifierName bindings
    such as `@foo`
* **Impact on SM**: No impact until stage 3,
* **Outcome**: No substantial comments, can be a "needs consensus PR".
